first thing you're going to do is
measure the length that you're wanting
to cut and make a mark then you're going
to take a square and you're going to
make another mark at the other end it
doesn't have to be perfect now you're
going to take masking tape and you're
going to take that line on the laminate
side of the countertop by taping the
laminate side of the countertop with
masking tape this will eliminate
splintering of the laminate when we saw
we will now turn the countertop upside
down measure once again and we should be
in line with this tape when we make our
mark from the other side to cut pad
you're sawhorses with rags or towels so
you don't mess up the finish side of
your countertop and you turn it upside
down with your countertop upside down in
place for cutting go ahead and measure
where you want your mark the length of
the countertop from the very corner to
where you're wanting to cut and make a
mark and at that point you will take a
square and you will run a line straight
across at 90 degrees to the other side
note that on the other side is where
your masking tape was placed should be
in line with this mark I will now create
a guide using a two-by-four
so we can take the saul straight down
that line for a smooth cut take your saw
and lower the stage to where you have
your blade resting perfectly Center on
the line that you created making sure
that you are snug against this back wall
now you will take a 2x4 and put it right
against the saw for the edge and you
will clamp this in place using C clamps
once the clamps are in place for your
guide
check with a square to make sure it's a
perfect 90 degrees you will now take a
smaller block and put it on the
backsplash using a square to make sure
it is perfectly in line at a 90 degrees
you will clamp that small block down
you
you have now created a perfect guide to
run your saul down to cut a straight and
smooth line when you do this it is good
to have somebody to hold the end of this
so it doesn't snap off make sure you
bring your stage back to where you're
cutting deep this will make a straighter
line when you cut
now you simply remove the masking tape
and inspect the edge and it should be
perfect and it looks good I've checked
for square it is a perfect 90 degrees
there isn't any chipping on the edge and
it is smooth and straight just what we
want